/*
 * Copyright (c) 2014  Cisco Systems, All rights reserved.
 *
 * This program and the accompanying materials are made available under
 * the terms of the Eclipse License v1.0 which accompanies this distribution,
 * and is available at http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html
 */


For installation instructions see the INSTALL file.

On Balanced (AVL) trees

This data structure features fast (O(log N)) insertion, deletion and
retrival of records, provided that there is a sorting relation over their
keys and there are NO ENTRIES WITH EQUAL KEYS.

The AVL tree is an explicite binary searching tree, where left children
of each vertex are less or equal, while right children are greater or
equal than the vertex itself. In addition, the tree is balanced so that the
difference between the depths of the two subtrees of each vertex is at most
one. This property - as shown by Adelson-Velskij and Landis - guarantees a
logarithmic upper bound for the depth of the tree.

About the implementation

This library follows an object-oriented design, despite its ANSI C
implementation. The reason for choosing plain old C is that it is aimed for
system programming.

The purpose of this library is to relieve the application programmer from
the burden of implementation of this sophisticated data structure. The main
design goal was not the ease of use or elegance but the memory-efficiency;
Balanced trees are in a way the ultimate data structures for huge amounts of
records in the operative memory. Therefore, any memory overhead, no matter
how small, causes sensitive vaste of resources.

The memory management is also out of scope of this library: you have to
place your data in the memory youself and then use the provided methods
to organize them into an AVL tree. You also have to clean up after removed
records; all this library does is that it removes your record from the tree
and balances it appropriately. Moreover, you have to provide an association
between the AVL header and the record body.

I am aware that the insertion can be implemented without recursion and stack
usage as shown in TAOCP, Vol. 3. The implementation of these methods is
extremely error prone, therefore I kept the readability of the code in mind.
Hence the abundance of comments. Deletion needs stack storage anyway.

Usage

First, you have to decide on record format and write a comparator which
takes two pointers to avl structures and returns the result of key-comparison.
The next step is to establish an avl_tree structure and put the pointer to
the comparator into its compar field. This is going to be your reference to
the data structure.

Keep in mind, that the search through equal keys is sequential. The library
handles them properly, nevertheless. Elements with equal keys retain the
order they were inserted into the tree.

Never ever try to insert an element which is already in the tree; this can
wreak infinite havoc, depending on how bulletproof your system is.

In order to use the library, you have to include avl.h and compile with
-lavl option.

For the exact syntax, see the header file.

C++

Whenever you write a C++ wrapper for this library, do inherit your classes
from avl, which has the same effect as placing the avl structure first in
yours (see avl_test), but is much safer in a C++ context.
